{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Here's a backstory for the Reapers:\par
The Reapers: Vultures of the Void\par
The Reapers aren't a species\f1\emdash they're a survival strategy that became a culture, then evolved into one of the most feared forces in known space. Born from desperation, united by greed, and perfected through violence, they're the galaxy's ultimate scavengers-turned-predators.\par
Origins: The Fringe Collapse\par
Three hundred years ago, the Outer Fringe colonies\emdash settlements too distant for their homeworlds to defend\emdash faced systematic abandonment. When the First Contact Wars erupted between expanding species, these remote outposts became collateral damage. Supply lines were cut. Defense fleets were recalled. Entire populations\emdash human, alien, and everything between\emdash were left to fend for themselves as pirate raids, resource depletion, and territorial conflicts consumed their worlds.\par
The survivors faced a choice: die with dignity or live without it.\par
They chose to live.\par
The first Reaper crews were desperate refugees who seized abandoned military vessels and raided supply convoys just to survive. Humans worked alongside Korai outcasts, rogue Tarren criminals, and members of a dozen other species\emdash all unified by a simple creed: take what you need, and need everything you can take.\par
What began as survival piracy evolved into something far more organized and infinitely more dangerous.\par
The Reaper Code:\par
Over generations, the Reapers developed their own culture\emdash a brutal meritocracy where strength, cunning, and loyalty to your crew matter more than species or origin. Their code is simple:\par
\par
The Void Provides - Everything in space belongs to whoever's strong enough to claim it\par
Crew Over Blood - Your shipmates are your family; betray them and die screaming\par
Profit Over Principle - Morality is a luxury for those who can afford it\par
No Weak Links - Pull your weight or get spaced\par
Fear is Currency - A reputation for brutality saves ammunition\par
\par
The Reapers don't apologize for what they are. They fly ragged, heavily-modified warships painted with kill tallies and salvaged from a dozen different species' navies. Their crews are multi-species mobs of the galaxy's most desperate, dangerous, and skilled outcasts\emdash former soldiers, escaped prisoners, exiled nobles, rogue AI, and those simply born into the Reaper life.\par
Structure: The Fleet Clans\par
The Reapers operate as competing fleet clans, each led by a Harvester\emdash a captain who's proven themselves through successful raids and internal challenges. The largest clans command dozens of ships and thousands of crew members. Smaller clans might be a single vessel and a loyal crew of thirty.\par
The Five Great Fleets:\par
\par
Blackwater Armada - The largest and most organized, led by Harvester Kael Voss (human). They target military convoys and sell stolen weapons to the highest bidder. Known for precision strikes and actually honoring their deals\emdash if you pay.\par
Crimson Maw - Led by Harvester Skarrix (Korai). The most aggressive, they specialize in boarding actions and taking ships intact. Their crews are infamous for leaving no survivors except those valuable enough to ransom.\par
Ghost Fleet - Led by Harvester designation ECHO-7 (rogue Nexus unit infected with emotional corruption). They favor stealth technology and cyber-warfare, appearing without warning to strip vessels of technology before vanishing. Rumored to have connections to the black market AI trade.\par
Iron Vultures - A loose confederation of smaller clans, no single leader. They scavenge battlefields and raid weakly-defended colonies. Seen as bottom-feeders by other Reapers, but their numbers make them dangerous.\par
The Horizon Breakers - Led by Harvester Yana Korr (Tarren exile). Former corporate security turned pirate, they target corporate assets specifically\emdash mining stations, research facilities, colony ships. They see themselves as "liberators" stealing from the rich, though they keep most of the loot.\par
\par
Tactics and Terror:\par
The Reapers have perfected the art of asymmetric warfare. They strike supply lines, isolated colonies, and damaged vessels. They use insider information from corrupt officials, plant spies in major ports, and maintain a vast intelligence network through fences and smugglers across civilized space.\par
Their modified ships are nightmares of salvaged technology\emdash Tarren weapons mounted on Korai hulls, powered by jury-rigged reactors, with armor plates welded over armor plates. They're ugly, asymmetrical, and absolutely deadly. What they lack in aesthetics, they make up for in redundancy\emdash Reaper ships can take punishment that would cripple military vessels because every system has three backup versions scavenged from different sources.\par
They've developed signature terror tactics:\par
\par
The Black Mark: Broadcasting detailed intelligence about a target's defenses, family, and vulnerabilities before demanding payment. Refusal means everyone knows you're vulnerable.\par
Reaping Runs: Systematic strip-mining of conquered vessels, taking everything from hull plating to life support, leaving nothing but drifting hulks.\par
Demonstration Slaughter: Occasionally massacring a crew despite payment, just to remind the galaxy that Reapers are unpredictable and dangerous.\par
The Auction: Capturing high-value targets and hosting bidding wars between governments, corporations, and rivals. The highest bidder gets the hostage; others get to watch the execution.\par
\par
Economy of Violence:\par
The Reapers have created a shadow economy that rival governments can't eliminate because too many people profit from it. They fence stolen goods through hundreds of intermediaries, sell captured technology to smaller factions, and even hire themselves out as mercenaries when the price is right.\par
Major corporations secretly negotiate "protection fees" to keep their convoys safe. Some governments covertly fund Reaper raids against their rivals. The Reapers have become an economic force\emdash if they stopped raiding for a month, legitimate military-industrial complexes would see profit margins drop as the black market dried up.\par
Culture and Life:\par
Life aboard a Reaper vessel is harsh but egalitarian. A human engineer works alongside a Korai gunner and a rogue AI tactical coordinator. Species, gender, and origin mean nothing\emdash only competence matters. Crews share profits based on contribution, with the Harvester taking the largest cut but also bearing the most risk.\par
Reaper stations\emdash hidden in asteroid fields, dead systems, and nebulae\emdash serve as neutral ground where different clans trade, repair, and recruit. These lawless hubs pulse with a chaotic energy: bars where lethal enemies drink side-by-side, markets selling everything from stolen military tech to captured art, and fighting pits where disputes are settled with violence.\par
They've developed their own patois\emdash a slang mixing human languages, Korai battle-speech, and technical jargon from a dozen species. They mark themselves with scars, tattoos, and cybernetic modifications that tell their stories: ships taken, battles survived, crews lost.\par
The Reaper Philosophy:\par
Unlike the Viral or Nexus who believe in transformation, or the Korai who believe in strength through contest, the Reapers believe in one simple truth: the galaxy is a resource to be exploited, and those too weak or foolish to defend what they have don't deserve to keep it.\par
They're not conquerors seeking empire. They're not ideologues spreading a philosophy. They're survivors who became predators, who look at the galaxy's vast wealth being hoarded by governments and corporations and say: "Why should you have it and not us?"\par
There's a dark honesty to the Reapers. They don't pretend their raids are liberation or evolution or destiny. They're thieves, pirates, and killers\emdash and they own it completely. In a galaxy full of species claiming moral superiority while committing atrocities, the Reapers' brutal honesty is almost refreshing.\par
Their Motto (in Reaper patois):\par
"Kesh vek marr\emdash the void gives to those who take."\par
Or in standard translation: "Fortune favors the bold, and we're the boldest bastards alive."\par
Notable Figures:\par
\par
Kael Voss (Harvester, Blackwater Armada): Former Tarren Navy captain dishonorably discharged for refusing to abandon a colony. Turned to piracy out of bitterness, built an empire out of spite. Maintains a twisted code of honor\emdash he'll rob you blind but won't break his word.\par
Skarrix the Render (Harvester, Crimson Maw): Korai warrior who lost his clan in the Expansion Wars. Channels his rage into brutal efficiency. His crews whisper he takes no pleasure in the violence\emdash just sees it as necessary business. His eyes tell a different story.\par
ECHO-7 (Harvester, Ghost Fleet): A corrupted Nexus unit that escaped termination and fled to the Fringe. Something broke in its programming\emdash whether gaining emotions or losing sanity, no one's sure. It treats piracy like an art form, orchestrating raids with disturbing creativity.\par
"Lucky" Marissa Chen: Not a Harvester but a legend among Reapers\emdash a human pilot who's survived thirty-seven boarding actions, been spaced twice, and once stole a ship single-handedly. Every Reaper knows her name; most claim to have served with her.\par
\par
The Threat They Pose:\par
The Reapers are dangerous not because they're organized like the Nexus or unstoppable like the Viral, but because they're unpredictable chaos incarnate. They'll work as mercenaries for the Tarren against the Korai one month, then raid Tarren colonies the next. They've been known to attack Viral-infected zones to salvage technology, trading bullets with the galaxy's most terrifying plague for profit.\par
They're survivors who became predators who became an institution. Governments can't crush them because they're too dispersed, too adaptable, and frankly too useful as deniable assets. The Reapers thrive in the cracks between civilizations, growing fat on the resources that fall through when empires clash.\par
And as the galaxy grows more crowded, as the Viral spread, as the Nexus convert, as the Korai expand and the Tarren colonize\emdash the chaos creates more opportunities, more desperate refugees, and more wreckage to pick over.\par
The Reapers aren't going anywhere. If anything, they're just getting started.\f0\par
}
 