{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 The Ascendancy: Heralds of the Eternal Return\par
Origins: The Revelation of Zenith-7\par
3489 AD - The Discovery\par
Thirty-two years before the First Contact Incident, a Tarren archaeological expedition to Zenith-7\f1\emdash a barren world on the edge of explored space\emdash made a discovery that would fracture humanity's philosophical consensus and birth one of the galaxy's most fervent religious movements.\par
Dr. Elara Venn's team uncovered a vast underground complex, perfectly preserved beneath kilometers of ice. The architecture defied understanding: walls that seemed to exist in more dimensions than the eye could perceive, chambers that appeared different sizes depending on where you stood, and at the center\emdash the Archive.\par
The Archive wasn't a library or database in any conventional sense. It was a consciousness interface, a repository of knowledge from a civilization so advanced that their technology was indistinguishable from the miraculous. The beings who built it\emdash whom the Tarren dubbed "the Ancient Ones"\emdash had existed millions of years before any current spacefaring species evolved.\par
What Dr. Venn and her team found in the Archive changed them. They emerged from that chamber three weeks later, no longer scientists but prophets, carrying a message that would ignite religious fervor across known space.\par
The Ancient Doctrine\par
According to the Archive's teachings\emdash as interpreted by Venn and her followers\emdash the Ancient Ones had achieved a state of existence beyond physical form. They had transcended the limitations of matter and energy, ascending to become beings of pure consciousness and order. Before their departure from this plane of reality, they seeded the galaxy with the precursor technology found scattered throughout space: the jumpgate networks, the ancient derelicts, the mysterious artifacts that defied analysis.\par
But the Ancient Ones had not abandoned their creation. They would return\emdash this was promised, this was inevitable\emdash when the "Harmonious Conditions" were met. The galaxy must be unified under a single philosophical framework: the pursuit of transcendence through technological and spiritual perfection, the rejection of chaos and conflict, and absolute devotion to the principles of Order, Unity, and Ascension.\par
Those civilizations that achieved this enlightenment would join the Ancient Ones in their transcendent state. Those that clung to barbarism, individualism, and conflict would be swept aside when the Ancient Ones returned to "restore true balance" to their garden.\par
The message was clear: convert or perish. Not as a threat from the Ascendancy themselves, but as cosmic inevitability.\par
3491 AD - The Founding of the Ascendancy\par
Dr. Venn, now calling herself the First Herald, established the Ascendancy on New Tarra's moon of Providence. What began as a fringe religious movement among Tarren intellectuals quickly grew as more archaeological expeditions uncovered Ancient sites throughout explored space. Each discovery seemed to confirm the Ascendancy's teachings\emdash the Ancient Ones had been everywhere, had touched everything, and their return was encoded in the very structure of reality.\par
The Ascendancy's core beliefs crystallized into the Doctrine of Universal Convergence:\par
The First Tenet - Sacred Unity: All sentient beings are fragments of the Ancient consciousness, scattered and lost. Division is illusion; unity is truth. All species, all cultures, all beliefs must converge into singular purpose.\par
The Second Tenet - Ordained Hierarchy: The Ancient Ones established a natural order to existence. Those who understand the Doctrine must guide those who do not. Resistance to conversion is not personal choice but cosmic error requiring correction.\par
The Third Tenet - Technological Apotheosis: The Ancient Ones' gifts\emdash their technology, their knowledge\emdash must be studied, replicated, and wielded. Through understanding their works, we prepare ourselves for their return and our own ascension.\par
The Fourth Tenet - The Cleansing Conflict: The current state of the galaxy\emdash war, chaos, suffering\emdash is a test. The Ancient Ones watch from beyond, evaluating which civilizations deserve transcendence. Only through trials of faith and conversion can we prove worthy.\par
The Fifth Tenet - The Eternal Return: The Ancient Ones will return when the galaxy achieves critical spiritual mass\emdash when enough souls have been brought into harmony. Their return will bring the Final Convergence, where the faithful ascend and the resistant face correction or erasure.\par
3495-3520 AD - The Great Conversion\par
For the next quarter-century, the Ascendancy spread through Tarren space like wildfire. Their message appealed to those seeking meaning in an uncertain universe, those frightened by humanity's isolation among the stars, and those attracted to the promise of ultimate purpose.\par
The Ascendancy established Temples of Convergence throughout Tarren colonies, massive structures built incorporating Ancient architectural principles discovered in archaeological sites. Pilgrims reported visions within these temples\emdash glimpses of the transcendent realm awaiting the faithful.\par
But conversion efforts weren't limited to persuasion. The Ascendancy developed a militant arm: the Ordained Cohorts, military forces dedicated to "correcting" resistance and protecting archaeological sites from "desecration" by non-believers. Their ships, adorned with sacred geometric patterns derived from Ancient designs, became a common and increasingly troubling sight across Tarren space.\par
3521 AD - The Expansion Doctrine\par
When the Tarren made contact with the Korai, the Ascendancy saw cosmic confirmation of their beliefs. Here were more souls requiring guidance, more fragments of consciousness needing convergence. First Herald Venn, now elderly but no less fervent, declared the Korai encounters to be the beginning of the "Gathering of Fragments."\par
The Ascendancy demanded that Tarren leadership prioritize conversion efforts over diplomatic or military considerations. When the Tarren government refused\emdash unwilling to let religious zealots dictate foreign policy\emdash the Ascendancy declared the secular leadership to be "obstacles to the Eternal Return."\par
3524 AD - The Schism and the Holy Exodus\par
Tensions between the Ascendancy and secular Tarren government reached a breaking point when Ordained Cohorts seized control of three minor colonies, declaring them "Sanctified Territories" under direct Ascendancy rule. The Tarren Navy's attempt to retake these worlds resulted in the Battle of Providence Station, where Ascendancy forces\emdash piloting ships retrofitted with imperfectly understood Ancient technology\emdash fought Tarren military vessels to a standstill.\par
Rather than face civil war, the Tarren government negotiated the Treaty of Separation. The Ascendancy would be granted autonomy over their sanctified territories and free passage through Tarren space, in exchange for ceasing militant actions against secular colonies and recognizing Tarren governmental authority in non-sanctified systems.\par
Second Herald Marcus Kain, who had succeeded Venn after her death the previous year, accepted the treaty but declared it temporary\emdash a "period of preparation" before the inevitable Universal Convergence.\par
The Ascendancy established their capital on Providence, renamed Zenith Prime, and began the Holy Exodus\emdash a coordinated colonization effort to establish Temples of Convergence throughout the galaxy, including in contested zones between the Tarren and Korai.\par
3525-3531 AD - The Missionaries of Conversion\par
The Ascendancy's approach to the other factions revealed the depth of their conviction\emdash and the danger of their zealotry.\par
Among the Korai: Ascendancy missionaries were initially met with violence. The Korai found the concept of religious conversion through persuasion rather than conquest to be contemptible weakness. However, when Ascendancy preachers challenged Korai warriors to ritual combat and won using Ancient-derived technology, some Korai began to listen. The Ascendancy's message of strength through unity and the promise of transcendent power appealed to certain Korai clans, creating a small but growing faction of converts who saw the Ancient Ones as the ultimate Worthy Opposition\emdash beings so strong they transcended physical existence itself. This faction, called the "Scale-Blessed" by the Ascendancy and "the Deluded" by traditional Korai, created internal tensions within the Expansion.\par
Among the Reapers: The Ascendancy viewed the Reapers as the most tragic case\emdash souls so lost in chaos they couldn't recognize their own need for salvation. Ascendancy vessels offered Reaper crews "mercy conversions": surrender, accept the Doctrine, and be granted purpose beyond mere survival. Some Reapers accepted, seeing the Ascendancy's fervor as exploitable. Others took offense at the condescension and made targeting Ascendancy ships a matter of pride. Harvester Kael Voss famously responded to a conversion offer by broadcasting: "I've seen your Ancient Ones' ruins. They're dead, and we're looting their corpses. That's balance."\par
The Sanctified Zones: The Ascendancy established fortified temple-colonies in dozens of systems, often in contested space between major factions. These settlements served as conversion centers, archaeological research sites, and military staging grounds. The Ascendancy claimed neutrality in the Tarren-Korai conflict, insisting their only war was against ignorance. In practice, they attacked anyone who interfered with their excavations or conversion efforts, making them yet another unpredictable faction in an already chaotic galaxy.\par
3529 AD - The Oracle Event\par
Everything changed when Ascendancy archaeologists activated an Ancient device on the dead world of Oracle-VI. The artifact\emdash a massive crystalline structure buried beneath the planet's crust\emdash responded to their excavation by transmitting a signal across known space. Every Ancient artifact, every ancient jumpgate, every piece of unidentified technology simultaneously activated for seventeen seconds before falling silent again.\par
The signal was encoded with information that took months to decipher, but when the Ascendancy's scholars finally translated it, they declared it the Prophecy of Convergence. According to their interpretation:\par
\par
The Ancient Ones were watching, waiting, counting the souls brought into harmony\par
The current galactic conflict was the "Crucible of Worthiness"\emdash a test to separate the ascension-ready from the irredeemably chaotic\par
A threshold existed: when sufficient consciousness achieved convergence, the Ancient Ones would return\par
The return would bring the "Great Sorting"\emdash ascension for the faithful, correction for the resistant, and erasure for the irredeemable\par
\par
Second Herald Kain declared the Oracle Event proof that the Eternal Return was imminent. The time for gentle persuasion had passed. The galaxy required aggressive conversion.\par
3530 AD - The Declaration of Holy Imperative\par
The Ascendancy restructured itself into a militant theocracy explicitly devoted to forced conversion. The Ordained Cohorts became the Crusade Fleets, and a new position was created: the Inquisitors of Convergence, tasked with identifying and "correcting" those who resisted conversion or, worse, spread heretical interpretations of Ancient artifacts.\par
The Ascendancy began systematically attacking archaeological sites held by other factions, claiming exclusive right to interpret Ancient technology. They established orbital blockades around newly discovered Ancient worlds, declaring them "Sacred Sanctuaries" off-limits to non-believers.\par
Most controversially, they began "liberation campaigns" against frontier colonies, offering populations a choice: convert and join the Ascendancy, or be deemed obstacles to the Eternal Return. Those who chose neither were often subjected to "involuntary harmonization"\emdash a euphemism for re-education camps employing psychological conditioning and neural modification technology reverse-engineered from Ancient devices.\par
3531 AD - Present Day: The Faithful and the Damned\par
The Ascendancy controls seventeen major temple-worlds and operates hundreds of mobile conversion fleets throughout the galaxy. Their territory forms a scattered archipelago of sanctified zones, connected by heavily defended pilgrimage routes. They've become a major galactic power through a combination of absolute conviction, Ancient-derived technology that occasionally surpasses even Tarren innovation, and the willingness to sacrifice everything for their cosmic purpose.\par
The Hierarchy of Faith:\par
The Second Herald Marcus Kain: The supreme leader, believed to commune directly with the Ancient Ones through the Archive on Zenith Prime. His sermons are broadcast across Ascendancy space, each one declaring the Eternal Return closer than ever. Critics note his interpretations of Ancient signs have become increasingly apocalyptic.\par
The Circle of Luminaries: Twelve high priests overseeing different aspects of the faith\emdash conversion, warfare, archaeology, technological development, and the interpretation of prophecy. Rumored to be enhanced with Ancient technology that extends their lifespans and cognitive abilities.\par
The Inquisitors of Convergence: Agents operating throughout the galaxy, identifying those who resist conversion or spread "corrupted" interpretations of Ancient teachings. Their authority supersedes all others within Ascendancy territory. They wear masks styled after Ancient facial structures discovered in archaeological digs\emdash a disturbing reminder of the civilization they serve.\par
The Crusade Fleets: Military forces piloting ships incorporating Ancient technology, often with unpredictable results. Their vessels feature hybrid designs\emdash Tarren or captured Korai hulls retrofitted with Ancient power systems and weapons that sometimes work miracles and sometimes catastrophically fail. The faithful see failures as tests of devotion.\par
The Ordained Masses: Billions of converted faithful across Ascendancy territories, from former Tarren colonists to Korai warriors to Reaper pirates seeking purpose beyond survival. They live in rigid hierarchies within Temple-Colonies, their lives dedicated to study, labor, and preparation for ascension.\par
The Technology of Faith\par
The Ascendancy's greatest advantage\emdash and greatest danger\emdash comes from their willingness to experiment with Ancient technology that other factions consider too dangerous or incomprehensible. Their achievements include:\par
The Convergence Drives: Modified faster-than-light systems that occasionally allow ships to travel distances impossible by conventional means, seemingly folding space in ways that violate known physics. Success rate is roughly 70%. The other 30% either fail spectacularly or result in ships arriving at their destinations with crews reporting lost time and disturbing visions.\par
Neural Harmonizers: Devices that allegedly facilitate spiritual conversion by "aligning consciousness with Ancient frequencies." Critics call them brainwashing machines. The Ascendancy calls them tools of enlightenment. Both are probably correct.\par
The Seer Engines: Ancient artifacts that the Ascendancy claims allow limited prediction of future events by accessing higher dimensional perception. Whether they actually work or simply provide sophisticated probability calculations remains debated. The disturbing accuracy of some Ascendancy ambushes suggests something functions.\par
Resurrection Protocols: The most controversial technology\emdash systems that can allegedly transfer consciousness between bodies or even restore the dead to life, imperfectly replicating the Ancient Ones' own transcendence. The success rate is horrifying, producing more "corrupted returns" (individuals who come back wrong, their minds fractured or alien) than true resurrections. The Ascendancy continues experimenting regardless.\par
The Prophesied Return\par
Central to Ascendancy belief is the certainty that the Ancient Ones will return. Every archaeological discovery, every decoded message, every activation of ancient technology is interpreted as a sign that the Eternal Return draws near. The exact conditions for return remain debated among the Circle of Luminaries:\par
The Unity Interpretation: The Ancient Ones return when sufficient galactic consciousness achieves harmonious convergence\emdash currently estimated at 60% of all sentient beings converted to the Doctrine. By this measure, the Ascendancy has achieved perhaps 8%, necessitating aggressive expansion.\par
The Crucible Interpretation: The Ancient Ones return when the galaxy has been sufficiently tested through conflict, and only the strongest, most devoted civilizations remain. This interpretation encourages the Ascendancy to view the current wars as divine trial, with conversion efforts aimed at ensuring only the faithful survive the testing.\par
The Artifact Interpretation: The Ancient Ones return when all their scattered technology has been gathered, studied, and activated in a specific sequence. This drives the Ascendancy's obsession with archaeological sites and their violent protection of Ancient artifacts.\par
The Threshold Interpretation: The Ancient Ones return when reality itself achieves critical spiritual mass\emdash a tipping point where the collective consciousness of the galaxy resonates at the correct frequency. How to achieve this frequency, or measure it, remains the subject of fervent theological debate.\par
Most Ascendancy faithful believe some combination of all four interpretations, creating an ideology that demands both universal conversion and technological mastery, spiritual devotion and military dominance.\par
Relations with Other Factions\par
The Tarren Collective: Views the Ascendancy as dangerous cultists who've weaponized archaeological discoveries and perverted scientific inquiry into religious dogma. The Tarren maintain diplomatic relations with Ascendancy territories while covertly supporting secular resistance movements within Sanctified Zones. Many Tarren secretly fear the Ascendancy might be right about the Ancient Ones, which makes the conflict even more bitter.\par
The Korai Expansion: Most Korai view the Ascendancy with contempt\emdash seeing conversion through persuasion as weakness and submission to long-dead aliens as cowardice. The Scale-Blessed converts are seen as traitors who've abandoned Kelash Mor'kai for subservience. However, some Korai strategists grudgingly respect the Ascendancy's combat effectiveness and view them as Worthy Opposition, if delusional.\par
The Reaper Clans: See the Ascendancy as hypocritical fanatics\emdash claiming moral superiority while forcibly converting populations and hoarding ancient technology. Reapers delight in looting Ascendancy temple-ships and selling captured "sacred" artifacts on the black market, viewing it as cosmic justice. However, some Reapers quietly convert, attracted to the promise of purpose beyond endless piracy.\par
The Dark Truth\par
What the Ascendancy won't acknowledge\emdash what their Inquisitors ruthlessly suppress\emdash are the inconsistencies in their doctrine:\par
\par
Ancient sites throughout the galaxy show evidence of violent destruction, as if their civilization ended in catastrophe rather than transcendence\par
Some decoded Ancient messages appear to be warnings rather than invitations\par
The technology they left behind seems designed for purposes other than enlightenment\emdash weapon systems, planetary engineering, and some devices whose function remains terrifyingly unclear\par
Increased activation of Ancient artifacts has corresponded with rising reports of spatial anomalies, disappeared ships, and sightings of incomprehensible entities at the edges of explored space\par
\par
A few heretical scholars within the Ascendancy whisper a forbidden possibility: perhaps the Ancient Ones didn't transcend. Perhaps they fled. Perhaps they were destroyed by something that still lurks in the spaces between stars. Perhaps their "return" won't be salvation but something far worse.\par
These heretics are inevitably found by the Inquisitors and subjected to "correction." Most recant. Some disappear. A few escape to spread their warnings to deaf ears.\par
Second Herald Kain knows these concerns. He declares them tests of faith. The Ancient Ones are watching. The galaxy must be unified. The Eternal Return is inevitable.\par
And if they're preparing the galaxy for something other than salvation? Well, the faithful will face it together, harmonized and pure, ready to be judged worthy of whatever cosmic truth awaits.\par
\par
The Ascendancy's Promise\par
"In unity, we find purpose. In devotion, we find strength. In the Eternal Return, we find transcendence. The Ancient Ones watch. The galaxy must awaken. Convert or be left behind when the strong stars finally come home."\par
Join the Ascendancy. Embrace the Doctrine. Prepare for the Return.\par
Or be deemed unworthy when the Great Sorting begins.\f0\par
}
 